Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
♪
Buglar. make it stop!
I can't! I can't!
Please! Mama!
Make it stop. please!
Mama. help me!
Here. boy!
Oh. grandma baby. Mmm-mm.
Shh!
We're gonna need some food.
Wait here. Okay.
Good boy. here boy.
Howard. come on!
Come on. Howard. buglar!
Where you goin'?
Bye. Denver. Bye?
We gotta go!
Buglar. come on.
No! Buge! Go ahead.
Howard!
Now what'd you go
and do that for?
Mama.
♪
Watch out there. here boy.
Paul?
Paul d?
Is that you?
What's left.
How you been. girl?
Besides barefoot.
Messed up my legs back yonder.
Chamomile.
I don't even
wanna hear about it.
I always did hate that stuff.
You're lookin' good.
Devil's confusion. sethe.
He lets me look good
as long as I feel bad.
How long has it been?
Eighteen years.
Eighteen years?
I swear. I've been walkin'
every one of 'em.
Mind if I join you? You wanna soak 'em?
Let me get you some water.
No. Can't baby feet.
They's got a whole lot more
tramplin' to do.
You ain't leavin' right away.
You stay awhile.
Ah. well. long enough
to see baby suggs...
And you.
Where is she?
Dead.
Oh. no.
When? Eight years ago now.
Almost nine.
Was it hard? I hope
she didn't die hard.
Soft as cream.
Bein' alive was the hard part.
Sorry you missed her. though.
Is that what you came by for?
That's some of what I came for.
Rest is you.
Truth be known.
these days I go anywhere
they let me sit down.
I wouldn't have to ask you
about hi m. would I?
You'd tell me if there was
anything to tell. wouldn't you?
I'd tell you. You know I would.
So you don't know
nothin' either.
Halle. Halle.
We got spare rooms.
Could stay the night
if you had the mind to.
You don't sound too steady
in the offer.
Oh. it's truly meant.
It's just that I hope
you'll pardon my house.
"My house."
I like the sound of that.
Come on in.
Good god. girl. What kind
of evil you got in there?
It ain't evil.
Just sad. Come on.
Step on through.
I-I thought you said
she died soft.
That's not baby suggs.
Who then? My daughter.
The one I sent ahead with the boys
before I run off. She didn't live?
No. Boys too?
No. they alive. I pray.
They run off just before
baby suggs went and died.
Probably best. Ahh!
Negro boy got legs.
he ought to use 'em.
Sit around too long. somebody'll
figure out a way to tie 'em up.
Ahh!
By yourself. then? No.
Got the girl I was carryin'
when I left sweet home.
You had that baby. did you? Damn.
I didn't think you'd make it.
Runnin' off pregnant.
all by yourself too.
Denver!
Come here. baby.
I want you to meet somebody.
Paul d. this here is my Denver.
Uh. mornin'. miss Denver.
It's a pleasure.
Mornin'. Mr. d.
Uh. garner. baby. Paul d garner.
Yes. sir. Glad to
get a look at you.
She a fine-lookin'
young lady. sethe.
Yeah. Got her daddy's
sweet face.
You know my daddy?
Of course he know your daddy.
He from sweet home.
Yeah.
Sweet home.
How come everybody who run off from
sweet home can't stop talkin' about it?
It looks like if it was so
sweet. you wouldn't run away.
Girl. who you think
you talkin' to?
True. true.
She-she right. sethe.
It wasn't sweet.
and it sure wasn't home.
But it's where we were.
all together.
Come back whether
we wanted to or not.
We have a ghost here. you know?
We met.
Denver. heat up that stove.
Can't have a friend stop by
and don't feed him.
Oh. don't go to no trouble
on my account.
Bread ain't no trouble.
The rest I bring back
from where I work.
Least I can do workin' dawn
to noon is bring home supper.
Got any objections to pike?
If he don't object to me.
I don't object to him.
Why don't you spend the night.
Mr. garner?
That way. two of you can talk
about sweet home all night long.
Denver. what is the matter
with you?
I never known you
to behave this way.
Mama. I can't no more.
I can't no more.
You can't what? What can't you?
Can't live here.
I don't know where I'm gonna
go or what I'm gonna do.
but I can't stay here!
Nobody speaks to us.
nobody comes by.
nobody even knows I'm alive.
Oh. Denver.
Come here. baby.
It's all right. Sethe.
I'm a grown man...
With nothin' new
left to see or do.
but I tell you it can't be easy.
a young girl
livin' in a haunted place.
Maybe you ought to move.
No.
No movin'. No leavin'.
It's all right the way it is.
It's all right.
You wanna tell me
it's all right. sethe.
and that child's half
outta her mind.
Hush. I say!
I got a tree on my back...
And a haint in my house...
And nothin' in between but the
daughter I'm holdin' in my arms.
No leavin'.
No runnin' from nothin'.
You hear me?
I will never run from another
thing on this earth.
Come on.
You can sit down and eat.
or you can leave us be.
Lord.
What tree. sethe?
Huh?
I don't see nothin'
growin' on your back.
It's there all the same.
Chokecherry tree.
Leaves. branches.
That was 18 years ago.
- Happened that night.
- That night?
Tree could have cherries
by now for all I know.
I ain't followin' you. sethe.
I had milk. Paul d.
I had milk. see?
I was pregnant with Denver.
but I hadn't stopped nursin'
my baby girl...
Before I sent her
and the boys off.
All I knew was. I had to
get milk to my baby girl.
I thought we was talkin'
about a tree.
We was all supposed to meet in
the cornfield. None of you came.
I had to leave my children.
go back lookin' for Halle.
That's when I saw you
in the shed.
Sixo dead. Schoolteacher
done gone and burnt him.
Paul a too.
They hang him from a tree.
Said you were gonna run
no matter what.
I didn't think you would
make it to the gate.
- I went back in the barn to look for Halle.
- Animal.
That's when
schoolteacher saw me.
What's it taste like?
Came in there
with his boys after me.
You've got
animal characteristics.
Them boys took my milk.
That's my baby's food!
That's what
they come in there for.
Hold me down. take it.
I told miss garner on 'em.
They're lyin'. the animals!
She had that lump on
her neck and couldn't speak.
But her eyes rolled out tears.
I remember.
Them boys found out
I told on 'em.
You're horrible and beaten up!
Schoolteacher had one of 'em
whoopin' up my back.
And when they closed.
it left a tree.
They used cowhide on you.
And they took my milk.
They beat you
and you was pregnant?
And they took my milk.
Oh. lord. girl.
Goddamn it!
Hush up!
Denver! Denver!
Move! Move!
Get outta the way!
Leave this place alone!
I said. hush up. goddamn it!
Paul d. look out!
Paul d!
- Paul d!
- You wanna fight?
Then come on. goddamn it!
I was up there in the loft!
Halle!
Them boys took my milk. Halle!
- That's what they come in there for.
- The loft. the loft.
Halle! I seen it all!
Hold me down and take it.
- Halle!
- Milk it like a cow.
- That's what we mean by animal characteristics.
- Halle! Stop!
♪ Little rice ♪
♪ Little bean ♪
♪ No meat in between ♪
♪ Hard work ain't easy ♪
Anybody here?
Mama! Mama!
Sethe? Hmm?
I was thinkin' of lookin'
for work around here.
What you think? Hmm. Ain't much.
River mostly. And hogs.
Well. I never worked
on the river.
but I can pick up anything
heavy as me. hogs included.
White folks here
better than Kentucky.
but you just might
have to scramble some.
But you just might
Well. it ain't whether I
scramble. it's where.
You sayin' it's all
right to scramble here?
Better than all right.
Your girl. Denver. it seems she
of a different mind though.
You don't never have
to worry about Denver.
She a charmed child
from the beginning.
Gotta know one thing
though. Paul d.
This here ain't no better life.
Just not that other one.
What I do here--
All I ever do...
Is keep Denver
from that other one.
Won't let the past in my yard again.
You understand?
Dangerous to love any one
thing that much. sethe.
The best thing is to love
everything just a little bit.
That way. if it breaks or
runs off or is taken away.
you know. maybe. you still
have a little love left over.
Hmm. Well. that's the way
it is. Paul d.
If I have to choose.
well. ain't no choice.
That's the whole point. I
ain't askin' you to choose.
I just wanna know if
there's a place for me.
If there's more than.
"you can stay. it's fine."
More like.
"I want you here. Paul."
Maybe we ought to just leave
things the way they are.
Sethe. I'm not sayin' this
'cause I need a place to stay.
We could make a life. girl.
A life.
I don't know about that. Paul d garner.
Leave it to me!
See how it goes. No promises
if you don't wanna make none.
Just leave it to me. All right?
All right.
we'll see how it goes.
You're willin'
to leave it to me?
Some of it.
Some. Okay. Okay.
Here's some.
There's a carnival in town.
Thursdays for coloreds.
and I got two dollars.
Me. you and Denver
gonna spend every penny.
What you say? I don't know.
All right?
No. Aw-- please!
You think baby ghost's
really gone?
Don't know.
She my sister.
I miss her.
♪ Well. I said
come here. black woman ♪
I wish he'd shut up.
He gonna ruin everything.
- Shh.
- Give him a chance.
Do that for me. Why?
How long he stayin'?
Don't know. ♪ I said run
here. black woman ♪
I think the baby ain't gone.
I think the baby got plans.
Maybe. ♪ I know your house ♪
Maybe so.
♪ Come one. come forward.
come all! Do not fear!
Come inside to the largest lady.
roundella. with me today.
Sweet. gentle and delicate.
eating a chicken from each hand.
Come inside now and see her. don't be
afraid. Come this way. Wait! Come back!
...and who will swallow a
confederate sword to the hilt
in front of your very eyes.
Step forward and see! Whoo!
Oh. grace.
You'll never believe
who come walkin' up in here.
- How do?
- Come on. Lucy.
Don't forget the pig ride.
How do. ma'am?
Step inside to see the things
you thought could never be.
The ferocious African savage.
cluck butoo!
Born with fangs. raised by wild
animals and captured crazy.
Look how fat she is. mama.
I-I knew this one
back in roanoke.
Want some licorice. Denver?
Yes. please.
Peppermint stick? Yes. please.
- Some gumdrops?
- Yes. please.
Mind if I take a sip?
Mmm. Mmm!
Hey. Denver!
Hi.
Thank you.
I'll take
one of those lemonades too.
But tell me about some work.
I mean. tell me about where I can
find some. Well. they have--
...Turns his head
inside his own face
and pulls his ears--
♪ Headin' back ♪
♪ Goin' home ♪
♪
What's that?
♪ Ain't wanna hurt nobody ♪
♪ Oh. no ♪
♪ Ain't gonna hurt nobody ♪
♪ Oh. lord ♪
♪
Excuse me.
You from around here?
What might your name be?
B...
E...
L...
O...
V...
E...
D.
Beloved.
That's a pretty name. beloved.
Why don't you rest yourself while
I-- I fix us a little somethin'.
We just got back from the
carnival over in Cincinnati.
Miss? Miss?
You wanna rest a spell?
I got her!
I got her. I got her.
Look at her feet.
Ain't walkin' feet.
More like she...
Ride from somewhere
all the way here.
Is she feverish. Denver?
No. she cold.
Could have the cholera.
She ain't sick.
Nah. it's just
a little somethin' I whipped up.
A little somethin'
you whipped up?
Mmm. Mmm.
Heard there's work
down in bucktown.
Go see it for myself today.
Mmm-mm.
Whoa! Whoa! Hey! Ho-ho! Whoa!
Hey!
♪
You wanna try some?
Come on. come on. Come on.
- Over here.
- Come on.
There you go.
Come on!
I knew you could do it. Oh.
You hungry?
It's good!
Slow down.
♪
Come on.
Chicken. chicken.
shoo. shoo. shoo.
♪ I call this one June.
and that's may.
You gotta do soft touch.
Remember? Can you do soft touch?
Touch it--
No!
Beloved.
I help make you bread.
That's nice.
Is my apron here?
All right. we need a little flour.
We need some--
I don't know. I see you got
all my things laid out.
Oh. wait. wait. wait. wait. Now you
need some of that right there.
You need this.
There. Wait. wait.
♪ Little rice. little bean ♪
♪ Ain't no meat in between ♪
Ooh. look at you.
Okay. put it down. Put it back.
♪
Go inside and get biscuit.
Easy.
♪ I went downtown
to get my grits ♪
♪ Came back home
just a-pullin' the skiff ♪
♪ Just a-pullin' the skiff ♪
♪ I ran upstairs
to make my bed ♪
♪ I made a mistake
and I bumped my head ♪
♪ Just a-pullin' the skiff
just a-pullin' the skiff ♪
♪ Went downstairs
to milk my cow ♪
♪ I made a mistake
and I milked my sow ♪
♪ Just a-pullin' the skiff
just a-pullin' the skiff ♪
♪ Tomorrow. tomorrow
tomorrow never comes ♪
♪
Come on!
Clouds look like
they're gonna burst.
Oh. here it come!
Here. here! Come on. girl.
Here. mama! Pull! Pull it!
Go! Go! Hurry up! Hurry up.
Come on.
Beloved. pick up that sheet.
Run! It's raining!
You're draggin' it on the ground.
Go!
Stop draggin' them sheets.
Pick 'em up off the ground now.
so we don't have to
wash 'em again.
Come on. Whoo!
Almost didn't make it.
Spread 'em out. Beloved.
put that sheet down now.
Spread it out. Keep
it up off the floor.
♪
Where...
Your diamonds?
Diamonds?
What would I be doin'
with diamonds?
On your ears.
Wish I did.
Come to think of it.
I had some crystal once.
Present from the lady
I used to work for.
Tell me.
Tell me your diamonds.
Wedding present
from miss garner...
Back at sweet home...
When Halle and me got married-- what
they called married back there and then.
Guess she saw how bad
I felt when...
I saw there wasn't gonna be
no ceremony. no preacher.
I never saw you
with no crystals.
Gone.
Long gone.
Come here. girl. You
best unbraid that hair.
Come on. Get the comb.
It's right here.
Ow! That hurts.
Comb it every day. it won't.
Your woman...
Never fix up your hair?
My woman? You mean my mother?
Mama don't talk about
all those things.
Tell me.
If she did. I don't remember.
I don't think I saw her but a
few times out in the field...
Once workin' indigo.
By the time I woke up
mornings. she was in line.
Hmm. If the moon was bright.
they worked by its light.
Sundays. she slept like a stick.
Tell me about her.
I remember. once.
she picked me up
and carried me
behind the smokehouse.
Only thing I do remember.
in fact.
She opened up her dress.
and right on her rib--
Right here--
Was a circle...
And a cross
burnt right in the skin.
She points at this mark.
and she says--
She says to me.
"this is your ma'am. I'm the
only one got this mark now.
"The rest all dead.
"Somethin' happen to me. you
can't tell me by my face.
you know me by this mark."
Scared me so I couldn't
think of nothin' to say.
so I says. "yes. ma'am.
"But how you know me?
Mark the mark on me.
Mark me too."
Did she?
No.
She slapped my face.
I didn't understand it then.
Not till I had a mark of my own.
What happened to her?
Hung.
Ma'am. What's the
matter with you. ma'am?
Why they hang your mama?
I never found out.
Was a lot of 'em.
Paul d be here in a minute.
Hope this pudding's
good tonight.
Denver. pass me
your plate down here.
Paul d.
Where you been all them years...
Since sweet home. Mr. Paul?
Ain't you got no people?
You wanna know about me now.
Uh-huh.
I got no people.
Eighteen years since
I left sweet home.
and I've been
walkin' the whole time.
Move. walk. run. hide.
sometimes steal and move on.
Only time I stayed in one spot
for more than a month or so...
Was with a Weaver woman
in Wilmington. Delaware.
Meanest place for a negro
I ever seen...
Outside of pulaski county.
Kentucky.
I seen negroes
so stunned and hungry.
they lived in caves.
fought owls for food.
Seen some who slept
in trees in the day...
And moved only by night.
who buried themselves in slop
to hide from...
Posses and lawmen
and regulators.
Met a negro boy once--
About 14--
Who lived by hisself
in the woods...
And said he could never remember
livin' anywhere else.
Seen a witless
colored woman hang...
For stealing ducks
she believed was her own babies.
In all these years. girl.
you beat all.
I ain't never seen
a negro like you.
I think it's time you tell us a
little somethin' about yourself.
She don't remember nothin'.
Oh. you'd be surprised
what you start rememberin'
soon as you start talkin'.
Ain't you got
no brothers or sisters?
I ain't got nobody.
Paul d. stop it.
Denver. help me
clean up this table.
I wanna know. sethe.
What you lookin' for
when you come here. beloved?
This place.
I look for this place
I could be in.
Somebody tell you
about this place?
She told me.
When I was at the bridge.
she told me.
How you come? Who brung ya?
I walk here.
It's a long. long.
long. long way.
Nobody bring me. You
wearin' new shoes. gal.
- If you walked so long. how come your shoes don't show it?
- Paul d.
Stop pickin' on her.
I wanna know!
Where you get them shoes
and the dress you had on?
I take the shoes.
and I take the dress!
The shoestrings don't fit.
I'll teach you
how to tie your shoes.
Beloved. Beloved!
Beloved.
Beloved. beloved. you all right?
Let it out.
Go to sleep now.
You can come in my room.
I can take care of you up there.
What's the matter with you? What
is it about her vex you so?
I don't understand
what the hold is.
It's clear why she hold on to you. I just
can't see why you holdin' on to her.
What you care
who holdin' on to who?
She nice girl.
company for Denver.
There's something funny
about that gal.
Act sick. sound sick.
but she don't look sick.
Eats sweets all day long.
as strong as a bull.
She not strong. She can't hardly even
walk without holdin' on to somethin'.
Can't walk. but I seen her pick
up the rocker with one hand.
You ain't seen no such a-thing.
Hey. don't tell me. Ask Denver.
She right there with her.
Sethe. sethe. baby.
We were startin' to feel a little like
a family ourself till she come along.
Is that what got your teeth on edge?
It's a feelin' in me.
I can't place it. It's her.
You wanna feel somethin'?
Feel what it feel like to be a
colored woman roamin' the roads.
And anything god made liable
to jump on you. Feel that!
I know every bit of that. sethe.
I wasn't born yesterday. and I never
mistreated a woman in my life.
Well. that makes one
of you in this world.
One. Not two?
No. not two.
What'd Halle ever do to you?
Halle stood by you.
Halle ran off.
He left me. and he
left our children.
You don't know that. Who he leave
then if he didn't leave me?
He wasn't there. He wasn't
where he said he was gonna be.
I had to pack my babies off
ahead of me on their own.
Stayed behind to look for him.
Got caught by schoolteacher
and his boys for my trouble.
He couldn't get out
the... loft. I expect.
Loft?
What loft?
One in the barn. I reckon.
He was there?
How do you know?
Mornin' after you run.
I seen Halle...
Chained to a post.
I said. "what happened?
Where you been?"
"The loft. the loft. The loft."
That's all he said.
Could never figure out
what he meant by that.
He saw them boys do that to me?
And he let them
keep on breathin'?
I-I ask him.
"how come you didn't run
with sethe?"
He never answered me.
I seen him once more.
the day schoolteacher
sold me to brandywine.
Takin' me away in the wagon.
There Halle was. in the yard.
sittin' by the churn.
They didn't need to put
no chains on him no more.
His mind was gone.
Sethe.
a man ain't a goddamn ax.
choppin' and hackin'.
bustin' every minute of the day.
Things get to him.
Things he can't chop down
'cause they inside.
Halle never just run off
and leave you. sethe.
You see.
you the only one of us
who made it out that night.
The only one.
I didn't plan
on telling you all that.
I'm sorry.
I didn't plan on hearin' it.
Didn't plan on you walkin'
down that road neither.
comin' into my house.
bringin' all this with you.
Where'd you learn to dance?
Nowhere!
Watch me do this.
Ohh!
Now you! Come on!
You may as well. Just go on!
Why you call yourself beloved?
In the dark. my name beloved.
What's it like where you was before?
Can you tell me?
Dark. I was small
in that place...
Like this here.
Were you cold? Hot!
Nothing to breathe down there.
No room to move.
You see anybody?
It's a lot of people...
Down there.
Some is dead.
You see Jesus? Baby suggs?
I don't know.
I don't know the names.
Well. what you
come back here for?
To see her face.
Mama's?
Sethe's?
Sethe.
I remember!
I was in the water.
I see her diamonds down there.
Then she left me behind...
By myself.
Don't.
You won't ever leave us.
will ya?
No. Never.
This is where I am!
Don't tell.
Please don't let mama know who you are.
You hear me?
Don't tell me what to do!
Don't you never. never
tell me what to do!
- But I'm on your side!
- She the one!
She the one I need!
You can go!
She the one I have to have!
Tell me how sethe...
Make you in the boat.
Tell me.
She never told me all of it.
Denver.
Tell me.
Well--
Mama was runnin'!
Who in there?
Who that back there?
My. my. my.
My. my. my. my!
It's a nigger!
If that don't beat all!
Girl.
you about the scariest-lookin'
somethin' I ever saw.
What you doin' way back up here?
I'm runnin'.
These the feet you runnin' on?
Jesus. my!
Miss. am I in Ohio?
Ohio? No. girl. you in Kentucky.
You about a thousand miles
away from Ohio.
You havin' a baby?
Oh. my!
I expect this baby there is
gonna die in these wild onions.
I gotta eat me somethin'.
W-w-where-where was you
on your way to-to. miss?
Boston. Get me some velvet.
It's a store called Wilson's. They
just have the "purtiest" velvet.
You ever seen velvet
or touched it?
I-if-- if I did.
I didn't know it.
Velvet I seen was brown.
velvet I seen was brown.
but in Boston.
they got all colors.
What they call you?
L-lu.
Well. what you gonna do. lu? You
just gonna lay here and foal?
I-- I-i can't get up.
I-i can't move.
Oh. sure. you can. lu. Come on. You
stay here. the snakes might get ya.
I can't. Come on. come on.
Come on. come on. Come on.
Come on!
I was fishin' off
the beaver once
when a nigger
floated right by me.
I don't like drowned people much.
Do you?
Your feet kinda
reminded me of him.
All swoll-like.
Now this is gonna hurt a little.
Anything dead comin'
back to life hurts.
You ain't got no business pokin'
'round these hills. miss.
Lookit here who's talkin'.
Ain't nobody after me. but
I know somebody after you.
and they catch you. they're
gonna cut your head off.
Stop wiggling. girl.
My back hurt me.
Your back? Yeah.
Girl. you a mess. Turn
over here and let me see.
Come here. Jesus!
It's a tree. lu.
Your back got
a whole tree on it.
Chokecherry tree in bloom.
See? Here's the trunk.
It's spread and split wide open.
full of sap and branches.
And darned if these
ain't blossoms.
Come on. girl.
'Cause of me.
you're up and walkin'.
See. Jesus. Lu made it through.
I'm good with sick
things. ain't I?
Yeah. you good.
What's all over your dress. girl?
It's milk.
Gotta get milk to my baby girl.
You mean. you got another
baby waitin' for you?
Oh. my. Jesus.
Come on.
Come on. Come on.
Now...
That's Ohio.
Jesus lookin' at you. girl!
Whoo! Come on.
Oh. here's your paddle!
What you doin' now. poor girl?
Stop that right now!
Jesus. lu! Stop it! Stop it!
Lu! Lu! Stop it!
Oh. Jesus! I'm awfully
sorry about braggin'.
I need you here now!
Don't be gettin' lost
on me now. Jesus!
Come on! Push! Push!
Push!
Oh. here comes the head.
Oh. dear Jesus. please. help!
God. it's stuck!
Come on!
Oh. praise Jesus. Praise Jesus.
She ain't never
gonna know who I am.
You better tell her who
brung her into this world.
You say. "miss Amy Denver...
Of Boston." Mm.
Pretty. That's pretty.
Denver.
Real pretty. Shh.
So Amy Denver. she left
me and mama on the riverbank.
That was the first time
we met stamp paid.
Hey there.
You headin' across?
Yes. sir.
Anybody know you comin'?
Yes. sir. My
mother-in-law. baby suggs.
Most folk call her
baby suggs holy.
To me. she were grandma baby.
Thank you. Ella.
Thank you. stamp.
Oh!
Oh. my lord.
My sweet Jesus!
Thank you!
Where's my Halle?
Well. he w-wasn't there...
Where he said to meet him.
and I had to go.
Had to.
H-h-he'll make it.
If I made it. Halle sure can.
Where-where's my children?
Oh. no. not now.
We got to fix you up first.
You too ugly-lookin'
to wake 'em.
Shh.
- Buglar. Howard!
- Mama. mama!
Oh. look at you.
Let me see. Oh!
Tell me the other baby.
Tell me you big sister.
Mm. baby suggs call her...
Crawlin' already baby.
Crawlin' already?
Ain't this somethin'?
All right. baby girl.
Right this way.
Mama's waitin'.
All right. Howard. buglar.
You're okay. Yeah.
Ain't nothin' here worth savin'.
What is this?
Weddin' present
from Mrs. garner.
I wish there was a groom
to go with it.
Put 'em on. child.
Maybe they'll light his way.
Look at those shine.
Pretty. huh?
Daddy come soon. huh?
No matter what happen.
god has led you home.
So...
Lay 'em down. sethe.
Sword and shield.
Study war no more.
God has led you home.
Where we goin'. mama? We goin'
to pay tribute to your daddy.
Our house used to be
a whole different thing.
Strangers rested there.
People leavin' messages. Folks
comin' and goin' all the time.
It was a happy house when I first got
there with Denver strapped to my chest...
Waitin' on her daddy to come.
Daddy.
Halle bought
baby suggs' freedom.
but slavery done already
busted her legs...
And busted her back.
hands. everything.
When she come here. she ain't had
nothin' left to make no livin' with...
Besides her heart.
Baby suggs used to preach
right here.
Let the children come.
Let your mothers hear you laugh.
Let the grown men come.
Let your wives
and your children...
See you dance.
Women! Women!
I want you to weep!
Just weep...
For the living.
for the living.
for the dead.
Weep.
Grandma baby used to say your daddy
was too good for this world.
Remember?
He was a good man.
It scared her.
She used to always fret
whether he wasn't gonna
make it through nothin'.
He made it through a lot.
Maybe grandma baby was right.
Denver...
Your daddy ain't gonna
never show up here.
You understand? But--
The day ain't gonna
never come...
When Halle knocks on that door.
Never.
There--
Mama!
Paul!
Paul d! Paul d!
You here?
Where else would I be
on a Sunday off?
You're here.
Uh-huh.
Why don't you come on in here?
Girls right behind me.
I don't hear nobody.
Tta cook. Me too.
Yeah. yeah.
I thought I'd make
some snap beans.
Fry up a little corn. Yeah.
Paul d. stop it. Stop it.
Denver?
- Beloved? That you?
- Shh. shh.
Paul d!
Come on.
That was real fine. sethe.
Thank you.
Sure you got enough? Yes. ma'am.
Bone-tired and river-whipped.
Paul d.
Don't tell me I slept in
this chair the whole night.
I'm not gonna say a thing.
Why you didn't rouse me? I did.
I tried callin' you
two or three times.
I thought maybe you went out somewhere.
Sorry. honey.
I'll make us some breakfast.
You know somethin'?
Breakfast can wait.
Paul! Paul d! Paul d!
What you doin'
in baby suggs' bed?
I don't know.
Like I'm havin' house fits.
It got me to move from bed...
To chair to bed.
Slept good. though.
No. Come on now. You
gonna be late for work.
Come on. come on. I got to get to work.
So do you.
Come on.
Yeah. right.
Come on. beloved. Yeah.
Why don't the chickens
have no teeth?
Whoo!
Chicken has no teeth.
Mama's cookin' chicken!
Oh. god.
Head hurts.
What you want in here?
I want you touch me...
On the inside part...
And call my name.
Good people take you in.
treat you good.
you oughta try to be good back.
You don't--
Sethe loves you...
As much as her own
daughter. you know that.
She don't love me
like I love her.
I don't love nobody but her.
Then what you come in here for?
I want you to touch me
on the inside part.
Go back in that house
and get in that bed.
You has to touch me
on the inside part.
You has to call me my name.
No!
No. I'll go if you call it.
No. beloved. Please. call it.
Beloved.
Red heart.
Red heart. Red heart.
Red heart. Red heart!
Red heart!
Red heart. Red heart.
Are there flowers in the dark?
There is.
Come on. Come on. Whoo-hoo!
Paul d! Wanna ride with us?
We got the wagon today.
Why don't we--
If I could just tell her.
Now. sethe. you ain't gonna like
what I'm about to say.
Somethin' is happening to me.
That girl do it.
Fixin' me. Yeah.
She fixed me. sethe.
She fixed me.
and I can't break it.
She-she moved me
out of the house.
she-she moved me
and then she--
She joined me.
No.
Paul d?
Why. you make me feel
like a young girl.
comin' by to pick me up
after work.
Pupski. There you go. pupski.
Better watch out. I might
start lookin' forward to it.
You get off from work
early or what?
I took off early.
Anything the matter?
In a way of speakin'.
Sethe. you ain't gonna like
what I'm about to say.
Well. say it. Paul d.
whether I like it or not.
I want you pregnant.
You want me pregnant?
Is that what
you come by here for?
Don't you think I'm a little too
old to start that all over again?
Th-think about it.
You crazy man.
Come on.
What has got into you?
You need some babies
or somebody to play with.
I'm sure willin' to try. I
need a willin' partner though.
I'll say. I'll say.
Mercy.
Let's run. Let's run.
I've been on my feet all day.
Oh. where I been. sethe?
Stop. Paul d. My legs
ain't made for this.
♪ Hard work ain't easy ♪
♪ Dry bread ain't greasy ♪
♪ Little rice little bean ♪
Hey. stamp! Stamp paid!
I'm gonna take this
one home with me!
Hey. you like this work so much. maybe you
best get in the chute with the others.
You ain't got much more sense
than they do.
♪ No meat in between ♪
I ain't singin' about this!
If a man can make a plan. the man
can make the good times happen.
The man got plans? You savin'
up for a gold mine. boy?
Better than gold. Me and my woman's
plannin' on startin' a family.
Yeah. a new life. Born free!
Now. if that don't mean a good
time. I don't know what does.
Nothin' born free ever again.
What you talkin'?
I been bought and sold
five times.
The last time. to the northpoint
bank and railway company.
No more! I walk and I sleep
and I eat where I please.
I earn a free man's wage.
Nobody's gonna own us no more.
Nobody's gonna own
my children either.
No more! No more!
Children inherit
where they come from.
Just 'cause you can't see no
chains don't mean they not there.
And as long as the world is
white. that's where we stayin'.
Come on.
Let's go get somethin' to eat.
Come on. Come on.
Mind if I join you?
Free country.
no matter what nobody say.
You don't know. do you. son?
Know what?
You one of baby suggs'
sweet home men. ain't ya?
Yes. sir.
Me. My brothers. Her son. Halle.
You knew baby? Oh. yeah.
Baby suggs holy.
God rest her soul.
Yeah. Sethe told me
she died soft as cream.
Well. maybe on the outside.
Why is that?
It was me who had brung sethe across the
river when she run away from sweet home.
I was there the day it happened.
Who is it?
That there's a picture of sethe.
Sethe?
That ain't her mouth.
I can see why you may think it.
around the eyes.
B-but that there
ain't her mouth.
Besides. why would they put some
colored woman's picture in the paper?
You don't read. do you. son?
You want me to read to you?
Already fed the girls. You eat?
Want something?
Best you come inside.
I don't have to tell you
about sweet home.
what it was.
Maybe you don't know what it was
like for me to get away from there.
I did it. I got us all out.
Up until then. it was the only
thing I ever did on my own.
Me... usin' my own head.
But it was more than that.
I was-- I was big...
And wide. Paul.
So wide. when I stretched out my arms.
all my children could get in between.
Looked like I-- looked like I
loved 'em more after we got here.
Maybe I just knew
that long as we was in
Kentucky with schoolteacher.
they really wasn't mine to love.
They really wasn't mine to love.
Look like when
I jumped off that wagon.
wasn't nobody in this world I
couldn't love if I want to.
Twenty-eight days.
Twenty-eight good days
of free life.
I'd wake up
in the morning and...
Decide for myself
what to do with the day.
Sometimes I--
I hear my boys--
Hear 'em laughin' a laugh
I ain't never heard.
First I get scared. scared
somebody might hear 'em...
And get mad.
Then I remembered that if they
laughed that hard till it hurt.
that'd be the only hurt
they have all day.
And when the people
would gather--
They'd come from all around
to hear baby suggs holy--
I seen and heard things
I ain't never seen before.
I seen what free negroes
look like for the first time.
Here in this place.
we are flesh.
Flesh that weeps...
Laughs...
Dances barefoot in the grass.
Love your flesh.
Love it hard.
Yonder...
They do not love our flesh.
Amen.
Oh. my people...
They do not love your hands.
Those... They only use...
Tie... bind...
Chop off...
And leave empty.
Love your hands.
Raise them up...
And kiss them.
Twenty-eight days of... freedom.
On the 29th day. it was over.
Outside.
♪
There's a look
that white folks get.
Righteous look that's like
a flag goin' up a pole.
A righteousness that...
Comes along with the whip
and the fist.
the burnin'. the lie.
Long before it happens
in the open.
No. no!
Howard. buglar. get in the shed!
Get in the shed! Run!
No!
Get in the shed! No!
No! No! No! No!
No. no. no!
- No. no. no!
- -Mama!
Mama!
Sethe! Sethe! No!
Sethe!
God almighty.
What'd you go and do that for?
Y'all better go on. Nothin'
here to claim. I guess.
Look like your business is over.
Mine's started.
Animal.
Oh.
- Oh.
- I'm going out. I'll send for a wagon.
Howard. Howard!
Wake up. Buglar. Baby!
Come on. sweetheart.
Wake up! Wake up!
Oh!
I beg your pardon.
Sethe. you take my armload
and give me your'n.
I beg your pardon.
Your love is too thick. sethe.
Love is or it isn't. Paul d.
Thin love ain't no love at all.
I stopped him.
I put my babies
where'd they be safe.
Didn't work. though. did it?
Your boys are gone.
you don't know where.
One girl's dead. The other can't
get further than the yard.
How did it work?
They ain't at sweet home.
Schoolteacher ain't got 'em.
Maybe there's worse. It ain't my
job to know what's worse. Paul d.
It's my job to know what is and keep my children
away from it. 'cause I'd rather know...
They at peace in heaven than live in a
hell here on earth. so help me. Jesus.
What you did was wrong. sethe.
I should've gone back there?
Took my babies
back to sweet home?
There could've been a way.
Some other way.
What way. Paul d?
You got two feet.
sethe. not four.
You can set aside supper for me.
I might be late gettin' back.
After all
I just told you. Paul d.
and after you tellin' me
how many feet I got.
you think sayin' good-bye
is gonna break me into pieces?
You think sayin' good-bye
You're a sweet man.
So long. Paul d.
We could roast some taters.
Too late. Tomorrow.
♪
I made that song up.
I made it up and sang it
to my children.
Nobody knows that song but...
Me and my children.
I know.
♪
You came back to me.
Yeah.
Ohh.
Back stiff? Mmm. Yeah.
Sleeping on the floor's supposed to
be good for you. Hurt like the devil.
Should I wake her?
No. Let her rest.
She likes to see you off
in the morning.
I'm gonna let her. but first
get me that ham out of there.
I'm gonna make us a nice. big
breakfast against the cold outside.
Won't you be late for work? First
time I'll be late in 16 years.
It don't matter.
Whatever goes on out there
goes on with or without me
showin' up on time.
The world is right here
in this room.
Right here is all that is
and all there needs to be.
She ain't even mad
at me. Not a bit.
Whoo.
- Mama!
Mama! Mama!
Put it back in there.
Put it back.
That's it. You're late.
You're fired.
That's all. I-i-- I've had it.
You make potato salad
always too sweet.
And you didn't make
the pies today.
You take home too much food. Where
are you going? Where are you going?
My goodness. Is
that-- yes. it is.
Did you see that? What?
That's a disgrace.
Sethe.
Don't look now.
but there is sethe.
Mm. Is she the one?
Will that be all. ma'am?
♪ To get my grip ♪
♪ I came back home just a-pullin' the
skiff just a-pullin' the skiff ♪
♪ Went upstairs to make my bed ♪
♪ I made a mistake
and bumped my head ♪
♪ Just a-pullin' the skiff
just a-pullin' the skiff ♪
♪ I came downstairs
to milk that cow ♪
♪ I made a mistake
and I milked that sow ♪
♪ Just a-pullin' the skiff
just a-pullin' the skiff ♪
♪ Tomorrow. tomorrow
tomorrow never comes ♪
The best part.
♪
Look at my pretty baby. She's
my best thing. Denver.
♪ Tomorrow never come ♪
Thank you. mama. ♪ tomorrow.
tomorrow tomorrow in the barn ♪
This one?
Would you wrap it. please?
What's she doing?
The first day we got here
to bluestone road.
you dribbled clear spit
on my face.
Just like when you come back
and drink that water.
it run down your chin.
I'd have recognized you
right off.
But Paul d. he distract me.
Then later on.
when you asked me about
them earrings I used to dangle
for you to play with.
I'd have known that was you.
except for Paul d.
Looked to me like he wanted
you out from the beginning.
But I wouldn't let him.
What you think?
Hmm.
I mean. look how he run off
first he hear about
you and me in the shed.
First he hear about
Too tough for him
to even listen to.
"My love too thick." he said.
What do he know about it?
♪ High Johnny ♪
♪ Wide Johnny ♪
♪ Don't you leave my side ♪
♪ High Johnny ♪
♪ Wide Johnny ♪
♪ Sweet William bend down low ♪
♪ Jack. we raise up high ♪
♪ Lambs wool ♪ why you hurt me?
Baby. you know.
Why you leave me?
Beloved. I wasn't never
gonna leave you.
Never.
But there wasn't no way
I was gonna let schoolteacher
come haul all of us off...
And measure your behind
'fore he tore it up.
- You leave me.
- No. baby. No.
See. my plan was to get us all over to
the other side where my own mammy is.
They stopped me from gettin' us all
there. but you had to be put...
Where you'd be safe.
and I did that.
Now you come back.
and baby. I ain't gonna
never let you go.
I want a sweet.
Sweet?
Sweet.
We don't have nothin' sweet
no more. baby.
Why you don't let me
eat the pie no more?
Since mama spent all the
money. we don't have no more.
I want a sweet! I want a sweet!
Sweet. sweet. sweet!
Beloved? Beloved!
Beloved. baby?
Baby? Beloved!
It's all right.
I understand.
Beloved?
Mama!
You best leave that quilt alone.
That's grandma's quilt.
I want a sweet. Where is sweet?
You mean I never tell you
about your daddy. Halle?
How he bought my freedom
with all that toil...
And never had a chance to see
the promised land for hisself?
Didn't I tell you
about the bodwins.
who find me this here house...
And give me work in theirs?
How the bodwins. they saved
your mama's neck from the rope.
I never tell you all this?
Is that why you scared...
To go down them steps
and out yonder...
By yourself?
Is that why you didn't
go back to miss lady...
And finish learnin'
your letters?
You liked going there.
I remember.
Bein' with the other children.
All of a sudden you've stopped.
There was this boy...
And he said things about mama.
He said he could prove it.
My Jesus. my.
Come here. child.
We got to go sometime.
You got to go out yonder
by yourself sometime.
You got to go on
out of the yard.
Go on.
Come on. now.
I want to work. miss lady.
Work?
Start learnin'
your letters again?
I mean "work" work.
Well. Denver.
what can you do?
I can't do nothin'.
But I could learn it for you...
If you have a little extra.
Extra?
Food.
My mama...
She don't feel too good.
Oh. baby.
Eat. Bad sethe.
Yes. Bad sethe.
Eat.
Ohh. honey.
What you got?
Thank you. ma'am.
You're more than welcome.
my child.
Thank you.
No. no. That's not my bowl.
Sugar. mine got
a blue ring on it.
You wanna come in a spell?
Come on in.
I got some warm gingerbread.
You just go on in there. Okay.
Shh. Shh. Go on.
Move. Get off of me.
You stink. and you messin'
up my dress. Stop it.
I'm tellin' you. get off of me.
Get off of me. now!
Stop it.
- How far you goin'. miss?
- I goin' to Cincinnati.
That's as far as we're goin'. miss.
Get off. Thank you.
How's it goin'? Take care
of yourself. all right?
Excuse me. I was lookin'
for the bodwin's house.
You bugger off. you hear me?
Yes?
What you want?
I wanted to see Mr. and Mrs. bowman-- Mr.
and Mrs. bodwin.
Ms. bodwin.
They brother and sister. darlin'.
What you want with 'em?
I was lookin' for work.
and I thought that
they might know about some.
Ohh...
You baby suggs' kid. ain't you?
Yes'm. I heard your
mother took sick.
Is that so? Yes'm.
Well. come on in. You're
lettin' in flies. Come on.
You know what? I been here since I was
14. and I can remember like yesterday...
When baby suggs holy came here
and sat right where you are.
White man. name of garner. brought her.
He and Mr. bodwin was good friends.
That's how she got that house you all
live in. Other things too. Yes'm.
I never went to those woodland services.
but she was always nice to me.
Always.
Never be another like her.
I miss her.
Bet you do. Everybody miss her.
That was a good woman.
Well...
I don't know whether
the bodwins think so or not.
but they sure
could use some extra help.
You think?
Especially at night. when
it's no good for me to come.
It'll take some convincin'. but
maybe you could come after supper.
Take care of your mama during the day.
How's that?
Fine.
But what would I do at night?
Just be here in case.
In case what?
In case the house burned down or bad weather slopped
the roads up so bad I can't get here on time.
Or late guests needed
cleanin' up after.
Anything.
Don't ask me what
white folks need at night.
They good white folk?
Oh. yeah. They good.
Can't say they ain't good. I wouldn't trade
'em for another pair. I tell you that.
But you come back in a few days.
Give me a chance to lead up to it.
All right?
What is it. child?
What's the trouble with sethe?
Is it really the daughter. janey?
The killed one?
That's what the girl say.
- How do you know it's her?
- It's sittin' there. Lucille.
It sleeps. eats and raises hell.
I'll be. A baby.
Nah. It's grown. It's the age
it would've been had it lived.
Mercy. What you talkin' about?
You talkin' about flesh?
I'm talkin' about flesh...
And it's whoopin' her...
Like she was batter.
- I guess she had it comin' a little.
- Nobody got that comin'.
But Ella. you just don't up
and kill your children.
No. and the children can't
just up and kill the mama.
Them that die bad
don't stay in the ground.
Schoolteacher--
Mama?
Nobody ain't makin' nothin'.
Nobody. Mama. I'm going out now.
I got a job workin' nights
over at the bodwins.
Mr. bodwin's coming
to pick me up now.
Writin' my baby's
characteristics!
Lay that down.
We have money now.
Mama!
Hey.
It's comin' out. It's over.
Help us. help us.
Ohh!
Ohh. amen!
Help us. Jesus!
Jesus. Jesus. Jesus.
♪ I heard the voice ♪ yes.
I heard the voice.
♪ I heard the voice ♪
♪ I heard the voice say ♪
♪ Come unto me and rest ♪
♪ I ♪
♪ Heard ♪ ♪ the voice ♪
♪ The ♪
♪ Voice ♪
♪ Of ♪
♪ Jesus ♪
♪ Say ♪
♪ Come ♪
♪ Un-to ♪
♪ Me ♪
♪ And ♪
♪ Rest ♪
♪ lay down. thou weary one ♪
it's all right.
♪ Lay down thy head
upon my breast ♪
♪ lay ♪
♪ Down ♪
♪ Thou ♪
♪ Weary ♪
♪ One ♪
- Mama?
- ♪ lay ♪
♪ Down ♪
♪
♪ I came to Jesus ♪
Oh. lord. please. ♪ As I was ♪
♪ The weary one who said ♪
♪ I ♪
♪ Came ♪
♪ To ♪
♪ Je-sus ♪
♪ As ♪
♪ I ♪
♪ Was ♪
♪ He ♪
♪ Had ♪
♪ Hold and ♪
- ♪ Said ♪
- no.
No. no. no. no.
♪ Tilt your eyes down low ♪
- Mama?
- ♪ I ♪
Mama?
Mama. that's Mr. bodwin!
♪ Mama!
Mama!
Mama! No. no. no! No. no. no!
No! Mama! Mama!
♪
Paul d? Is that you?
Good morning.
Well. it is now.
How you gettin' along?
Don't pay to complain.
Yeah. Right. You on your way home?
No.
I got an afternoon job
at the shirt factory.
I figure between that and my
night work at the bodwins.
I might be able to put somethin'
aside for me and mama.
They treatin' you right over at the
bodwins? Mm-hmm. More than all right.
Ms. bodwin. she teachin' me stuff.
Book stuff.
She say I might go
to oberlin college.
That's fine. mighty fine.
Well.
Your mother all right?
No. She's not a bit all right.
She hasn't gotten out of bed
since that day.
Think I should stop by?
Think she'd welcome it?
I don't know.
I think I lost my mama. Paul d.
Th-that girl. You know. Beloved.
She-she gone like they say?
Haven't seen her since that day.
Mama say she gone.
She can feel it.
You think she sure enough
your sister?
At times.
At other times...
I think she was more.
But who would know that
better than you. Paul d?
You sure enough knew her.
- Well. if you want my opinion--
- I don't.
I have my own.
♪ You grown.
Yes. sir.
Well. good luck with your job.
Thank you.
♪
Bye. now.
Watch your step.
Paul d?
You don't have to stay away.
But you watch how you talk
to my mama. you hear?
Don't worry.
Hey. miss Denver! Wait up!
Hi.
Watch it. miss.
Yeah.
Ohh.
♪
Sethe?
Paul d?
You shaved.
Yeah. Look bad?
Lookin' good.
Devil's confusion.
I seen Denver. She tell ya?
You gotta get up
from here. girl.
Look. Denver be here in the day.
I'll be here at night.
I'm gonna take care
of you. ya hear?
Startin' now.
What. baby? What?
She leave me.
She gone again.
Oh. girl. Don't cry.
She leave me.
Sethe. sethe.
Paul.
she my best thing.
You your best thing. sethe.
You are.
Me?
And the beat.
beat of your heart.
♪ Love it...
More than the lungs...
That need yet...
To breathe free air;
More than the womb...
That holds life;
More than the private parts...
That give life.
That's right. Love your heart.
Yes! Love your heart!
This... this...
This is the prize.
- Amen.
- Yes!
Amen. This is the prize.
Amen.
♪
- Thank you. sister.
I feel it.
Bless you. Bless you.
Bless you. Hallelujah!
Hallelujah! Hallelujah!
Hallelujah!
♪
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm